ticdc: add open api v2 doc (#12921)
pingcap/docs: ticdc/ticdc-open-api-v2.md

---
title: TiCDC OpenAPI v2
summary: Learn how to use the OpenAPI v2 interface to manage the cluster status and data replication.
---

# TiCDC OpenAPI v2

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD024 -->

> TiCDC provides the OpenAPI feature for querying and operating the TiCDC cluster, which is similar to the feature of [`cdc cli` tool](/ticdc/ticdc-manage-changefeed.md).

Author: ```suggestion
TiCDC provides the OpenAPI feature for querying and operating the TiCDC cluster. The OpenAPI feature is a subset of the [`cdc cli` tool](/ticdc/ticdc-manage-changefeed.md).
```

  "items": [
    {
      "id": "d2912e63-3349-447c-90ba-wwww",
      "is_owner": true,
      "address": "127.0.0.1:8300"
    },
    {
      "id": "d2912e63-3349-447c-90ba-xxxx",
      "is_owner": false,
      "address": "127.0.0.1:8302"
    }
  ]
}
```

In the above example:

- `total`: indicates the total number of resources.
- `items`: an array that contains all the resources returned by the this request. All elements of the array are of the same resource. If the API supports paging, the number of elements in the array might be less than the value of `total`.

## Get the status information of a TiCDC node

This API is a synchronous interface. If the request is successful, the status information of the corresponding node is returned.

### Request URI

`GET /api/v2/status`

### Example

The following request gets the status information of the TiCDC node whose IP address is `127.0.0.1` and port number is `8300`.

```shell
curl -X GET http://127.0.0.1:8300/api/v2/status
```

```json
{
  "version": "v7.0.0-master-dirty",
  "git_hash": "10413bded1bdb2850aa6d7b94eb375102e9c44dc",
  "id": "d2912e63-3349-447c-90ba-72a4e04b5e9e",
  "pid": 1447,
  "is_owner": true,
  "liveness": 0
}
```

> The fields of the above output are described as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The parameters of the above output are described as follows:
```

| Parameter name | Description |
| :------------------------ | :----------------------------------------------------- |
| `bdr_mode`                | `BOOLEAN` type. Determines whether to enable [bidirectional replication](/ticdc/ticdc-bidirectional-replication.md). The default value is `false`. (Optional)               |
| `case_sensitive`          | `BOOLEAN` type. Determines whether to be case-sensitive when filtering table names. The default value is `true`. (Optional)   |
| `check_gc_safe_point`     | `BOOLEAN` type. Determines whether to check that the start time of the replication task is earlier than the GC time. The default value is `true`. (Optional)                                  |
| `consistent`              | The configuration parameters of redo log. (Optional) |
| `enable_old_value`        | `BOOLEAN` type. Determines whether to output the old value (that is, the value before the update). The default value is `true`. (Optional)         |
| `enable_sync_point`       | `BOOLEAN` type. Determines whether to enable `sync point`. (Optional)         |
| `filter`                  | The configuration parameters of `filter`. (Optional)           |

> | `force_replicate`         | `BOOLEAN` type. The default value is `false`. When you set it to `true`, the replicaton task forcibly replicates the tables without unique indexes. (Optional)                |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `force_replicate`         | `BOOLEAN` type. The default value is `false`. When you set it to `true`, the replication task forcibly replicates the tables without unique indexes. (Optional)                |
```

The `mounter` parameter is described as follows:

| Parameter name | Description |
|:-----------------|:---------------------------------------|
| `worker_num` | `INT` type. The number of Mounter threads. Mounter is used to decode the data output from TiKV. The default value is `16`. (Optional)   |

The `sink` parameters are described as follows:

| Parameter name | Description |
|:-----------------|:---------------------------------------|
| `column_selectors`      | The column selector configuration. (Optional)                                              |
| `csv`                   | The CSV configuration. (Optional)                                         |
| `date_separator`        | `STRING` type. Indicates the date separator type of the file directory. Value options are `none`, `year`, `month`, and `day`. `none` is the default value and means that the date is not separated. (Optional)      |
| `dispatchers`           | An configuration array for event dispatching. (Optional)                                                     |

> | `encoder_concurrency`   | `INT` type. The number of encoder threads in the MQ sink. The deault value is `16`. (Optional)               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `encoder_concurrency`   | `INT` type. The number of encoder threads in the MQ sink. The default value is `16`. (Optional)               |
```

| `terminator`            | `STRING` type. The terminator is used to separate two data change events. The default value is null, which means `"\r\n"` is used as the terminator. (Optional)                |
| `transaction_atomicity` | `STRING` type. The atomicity of the transaction. (Optional)  |

`sink.column_selectors` is an array. The parameters are described as follows:

| Parameter name | Description |
|:-----------------|:---------------------------------------|
| `columns` | `STRING ARRAY` type. The column array.                 |
| `matcher` | `STRING ARRAY` type. The matcher configuration. It has the same match syntax as the filter rule syntax.  |

The `sink.csv` parameters are described as follows:

| Parameter name | Description |
|:-----------------|:---------------------------------------|
| `delimiter`         | `STRING` type. The character used to separate fields in the CSV file. The value must be an ASCII character and defaults to `,`.     |
| `include_commit_ts` | `BOOLEAN` type. Whether to include commit-ts in CSV rows. The default value is `false`. |

> | `null`              | `STRING` type. The character displayed when a CSV column is null. The default value is `\N`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `null`              | `STRING` type. The character that is displayed when a CSV column is null. The default value is `\N`. |
```

| `quote`             | `STRING` type. The quotation character used to surround fields in the CSV file. If the value is empty, no quotation is used. The default value is `"`. |

`sink.dispatchers`: for the sink of MQ type, you can use this parameter to configure the event dispatcher. The following dispatchers are supported: `default`, `ts`, `rowid`, and `table`. The dispatcher rules are as follows:

- `default`: when multiple unique indexes (including the primary key) exist, events are dispatched in the table mode. When only one unique index (or the primary key) exists, events are dispatched in the rowid mode. If the Old Value feature is enabled, events are dispatched in the table mode.
- `ts`: uses the commitTs of the row change to create the hash value and dispatch events.
- `rowid`: uses the name and value of the selected HandleKey column to create the hash value and dispatch events.
- `table`: uses the schema name of the table and the table name to create the hash value and dispatch events.

`sink.dispatchers` is an array. The parameters are described as follows:

| Parameter name | Description |
|:-----------------|:---------------------------------------|

> | `matcher`   | `STRING ARRAY` type. It has the same match syntax as the filter rule syntax. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `matcher`   | `STRING ARRAY` type. It has the same matching syntax as the filter rule does. |
```

      "dispatchers": [
        {
          "matcher": [
            "string"
          ],
          "partition": "string",
          "topic": "string"
        }
      ],
      "enable_partition_separator": true,
      "encoder_concurrency": 0,
      "protocol": "string",
      "schema_registry": "string",
      "terminator": "string",
      "transaction_atomicity": "string"
    },
    "sync_point_interval": "string",
    "sync_point_retention": "string"
  },
  "create_time": "string",
  "creator_version": "string",
  "error": {
    "addr": "string",
    "code": "string",
    "message": "string"
  },
  "id": "string",
  "resolved_ts": 0,
  "sink_uri": "string",
  "start_ts": 0,
  "state": "string",
  "target_ts": 0,
  "task_status": [
    {
      "capture_id": "string",
      "table_ids": [
        0
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

The parameters are described as follows:

| Parameter name | Description |
|:-----------------|:---------------------------------------|
| `admin_job_type`  | `INTEGER` type. The admin job type.                 |
| `checkpoint_time` | `STRING` type. The formatted time of the current checkpoint for the replication task.                  |

> | `checkpoint_ts`   | `STRING` type. TSO of the current checkpoint for the replication task.    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `checkpoint_ts`   | `STRING` type. The TSO of the current checkpoint for the replication task.    |
```

| `config`          | The replication task configuration. The structure and meaning are the same as that of the `replica_config` configuration in creating the replication task.       |
| `create_time`     | `STRING` type. The time when the replication task is created.                          |
| `creator_version` | `STRING` type. The TiCDC version when the replication task is created.         |
| `error`           | The replication task error.                      |
| `id`              | `STRING` type. The replication task ID.                |
| `resolved_ts`     | `UINT64` type. The replication task resolved ts.    |
| `sink_uri`        | `STRING` type. The replication task sink URI.                                     |
| `start_ts`        | `UINT64` type. The replication task start ts.                                      |

> | `state`           | `STRING` type. The replication task status. It can be `normal`, `stopped`, `error`, `failed`, and `finished`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `state`           | `STRING` type. The replication task status. It can be `normal`, `stopped`, `error`, `failed`, or `finished`. |
```

| `target_ts`       | `UINT64` type. The replication task target ts.                                    |
| `task_status`     | The detailed status of dispatching the replication task. |

The `task_status` parameters are described as follows:

| Parameter name | Description |
|:-----------------|:---------------------------------------|
| `capture_id` | `STRING` type. The capture ID.                    |
| `table_ids`  | `UINT64 ARRAY` type. The ID of the table being replicated on this capture. |

The `error` parameters are described as follows:

| Parameter name | Description |
|:-----------------|:---------------------------------------|

> | `addr` | `STRING` type. The capture address |
> | `code` | `STRING` type. The error code          |
> | `message` | `STRING` type. The details of the error      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `addr` | `STRING` type. The capture address. |
| `code` | `STRING` type. The error code.          |
| `message` | `STRING` type. The details of the error.      |
```

## Remove a replication task

> This API is an idempotent interface (that is, it can be applied multiple times without changing the result beyond the initial application). If the request is successful, `200 OK` is returned. The returned result only means that the server agrees to run the command but does not guarantee that the command will be run successfully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This API is an idempotent interface (that is, it can be applied multiple times without changing the result beyond the initial application) for removing a replication task. If the request is successful, `200 OK` is returned. The returned result only means that the server agrees to run the command but does not guarantee that the command will be run successfully.
```

### Request URI

`DELETE /api/v2/changefeeds/{changefeed_id}`

### Parameter descriptions

#### Path parameters

| Parameter name | Description |
| :-------------- | :----------------------------------- |
| `changefeed_id` | The ID of the replication task (changefeed) to be removed. |

### Example

The following request removes the replication task with the ID `test1`.

```shell
curl -X DELETE http://127.0.0.1:8300/api/v2/changefeeds/test1
```

If the request is successful, `200 OK` is returned. If the request fails, an error message and error code are returned.

## Update the replication configuration

> This API is an asynchronous interface. If the request is successful, `200 OK` is returned. The returned result only means that the server agrees to run the command but does not guarantee that the command will be run successfully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This API is used for updating a replication task. If the request is successful, `200 OK` is returned. The returned result only means that the server agrees to run the command but does not guarantee that the command will be run successfully.
```

      "encoder_concurrency": 0,
      "protocol": "string",
      "schema_registry": "string",
      "terminator": "string",
      "transaction_atomicity": "string"
    },
    "sync_point_interval": "string",
    "sync_point_retention": "string"
  },
  "sink_uri": "string",
  "target_ts": 0
}
```

Currently, only the following configurations can be modified via the API.

| Parameter name | Description |
| :-------------------- | :----------------------------------------------------- |
| `target_ts` | `UINT64` type. Specifies the target TSO of the changefeed. (Optional) |
| `sink_uri` | `STRING` type. The downstream address of the replication task. (Optional) |
| `replica_config` | The configuration parameters of sink. It must be complete. (Optional) |

The meanings of the above parameters are the same as those in the [Create a replication task](#create-a-replication-task) section. See that section for details.

### Example

The following request updates the `target_ts` of the replication task with the ID `test1` to `32`.

```shell
 curl -X PUT -H "'Content-type':'application/json'" http://127.0.0.1:8300/api/v2/changefeeds/test1 -d '{"target_ts":32}'
```

> If the request is successful, `200 OK` is returned. If the request fails, an error message and error code are returned. The meanings of the above parameters are the same as those in the [Create a replication task](#create-a-replication-task) section. See that section for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the request is successful, `200 OK` is returned. If the request fails, an error message and error code are returned. The meanings of the JSON response body are the same as those in the [Create a replication task](#create-a-replication-task) section. See that section for details.
```

### Request URI

`GET /api/v2/changefeeds`

### Parameter descriptions

#### Query parameter

| Parameter name | Description |
| :------ | :--------------------------------------------- |
| `state` | When this parameter is specified, the information of replication tasks in this specified state is returned. (Optional) |

The value options for `state` are `all`, `normal`, `stopped`, `error`, `failed`, and `finished`.

If this parameter is not specified, the basic information of replication tasks in the `normal`, `stopped`, or `failed` state is returned by default.

### Example

The following request queries the basic information of all replication tasks in the `normal` state.

```shell
curl -X GET http://127.0.0.1:8300/api/v2/changefeeds?state=normal
```

```json
{
  "total": 2,
  "items": [
    {
      "id": "test",
      "state": "normal",
      "checkpoint_tso": 439749918821711874,
      "checkpoint_time": "2023-02-27 23:46:52.888",
      "error": null
    },
    {
      "id": "test2",
      "state": "normal",
      "checkpoint_tso": 439749918821711874,
      "checkpoint_time": "2023-02-27 23:46:52.888",
      "error": null
    }
  ]
}
```

> The fields in the returned result above are described as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The parameters in the returned result above are described as follows:
```

- `id`: the ID of the replication task.
- `state`: the current [state](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-overview.md#changefeed-state-transfer) of the replication task.
- `checkpoint_tso`: the TSO of the current checkpoint of the replication task.
- `checkpoint_time`: the formatted time of the current checkpoint of the replication task.
- `error`: the error information of the replication task.

## Query a specific replication task

This API is a synchronous interface. If the request is successful, the detailed information of the specified replication task (changefeed) is returned.

### Request URI

`GET /api/v2/changefeeds/{changefeed_id}`

### Parameter description

#### Path parameter

| Parameter name | Description |
| :-------------- | :----------------------------------- |
| `changefeed_id` | The ID of the replication task (changefeed) to be queried. |

### Example

The following request queries the detailed information of the replication task with the ID `test1`.

```shell
curl -X GET http://127.0.0.1:8300/api/v2/changefeeds/test1
```

> The meanings of the above parameters are the same as those in the [Create a replication task](#create-a-replication-task) section. See that section for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The meanings of the JSON response body are the same as those in the [Create a replication task](#create-a-replication-task) section. See that section for details.
```

## Pause a replication task

> This API is an asynchronous interface. If the request is successful, `200 OK` is returned. The returned result only means that the server agrees to run the command but does not guarantee that the command will be run successfully.

Reviewer: 中文：该接口暂停一个同步任务

### Request URI

`POST /api/v2/changefeeds/{changefeed_id}/pause`

### Parameter description

#### Path parameter

| Parameter name | Description |
| :-------------- | :----------------------------------- |
| `changefeed_id` | The ID of the replication task (changefeed) to be paused. |

### Example

The following request pauses the replication task with the ID `test1`.

```shell
curl -X POST http://127.0.0.1:8300/api/v2/changefeeds/test1/pause
```

If the request is successful, `200 OK` is returned. If the request fails, an error message and error code are returned.

## Resume a replication task

> This API is an asynchronous interface. If the request is successful, `200 OK` is returned. The returned result only means that the server agrees to run the command but does not guarantee that the command will be run successfully.

Reviewer: 中文： 该接口恢复一个同步任务

| :-------------- | :----------------------------------- |
| `overwrite_checkpoint_ts` | `UINT64` type. Reassign a checkpoint TSO when resuming a replication task (changefeed). |

### Example

The following request resumes the replication task with the ID `test1`.

```shell
curl -X POST http://127.0.0.1:8300/api/v2/changefeeds/test1/resume -d '{}'
```

If the request is successful, `200 OK` is returned. If the request fails, an error message and error code are returned.

## Query the replication subtask list

This API is a synchronous interface. If the request is successful, the basic information of all replication subtasks (`processor`) is returned.

### Request URI

`GET /api/v2/processors`

### Example

```shell
curl -X GET http://127.0.0.1:8300/api/v2/processors
```

```json
{
  "total": 3,
  "items": [
    {
      "changefeed_id": "test2",
      "capture_id": "d2912e63-3349-447c-90ba-72a4e04b5e9e"
    },
    {
      "changefeed_id": "test1",
      "capture_id": "d2912e63-3349-447c-90ba-72a4e04b5e9e"
    },
    {
      "changefeed_id": "test",
      "capture_id": "d2912e63-3349-447c-90ba-72a4e04b5e9e"
    }
  ]
}
```

The parameters are described as follows:

> - `changefeed_id`: the changefeed ID
> - `capture_id`: the capture ID

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `changefeed_id`: the changefeed ID.
- `capture_id`: the capture ID.
```

| :-------------- | :----------------------------------- |
| `changefeed_id` | The changefeed ID of the replication subtask to be queried. |
| `capture_id` | The capture ID of the replication subtask to be queried. |

### Example

The following request queries the detailed information of a subtask whose `changefeed_id` is `test` and `capture_id` is `561c3784-77f0-4863-ad52-65a3436db6af`. A subtask can be identified by `changefeed_id` and `capture_id`.

```shell
curl -X GET http://127.0.0.1:8300/api/v2/processors/test/561c3784-77f0-4863-ad52-65a3436db6af
```

```json
{
  "table_ids": [
    80
  ]
}
```

The parameter is described as follows:

- `table_ids`: The table ID to be replicated on this capture.

## Query the TiCDC service process list

This API is a synchronous interface. If the request is successful, the basic information of all replication processes (`capture`) is returned.

### Request URI

`GET /api/v2/captures`

### Example

```shell
curl -X GET http://127.0.0.1:8300/api/v2/captures
```

```json
{
  "total": 1,
  "items": [
    {
      "id": "d2912e63-3349-447c-90ba-72a4e04b5e9e",
      "is_owner": true,
      "address": "127.0.0.1:8300"
    }
  ]
}
```

> The parameter is described as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The parameters are described as follows:
```
